Deliverables/Submitted/Deliverable4.md, before:

# D.4 Implementation 1

Group 04 – “TypeLock”\
Date: March 26, 2023\
Location: Flagstaff, Arizona\
Group Members: Taylor Nielsen, Eduardo De La Rosa, Alexander Siegel, Brock Heinz, Levi Watlington, Michael Vertin

## Introduction (Eddie)

Provide a short paragraph that describes your system. This paragraph should contain the value proposition and the description of the main features of the software. At the end of the introduction, include links to your project on GitHub.

Project repository: [https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword)

## Implemented requirements (Gus, Eddie, Brock)

List in this section, the requirements and associated pull request that you implemented for this release, following the example below---include the description of the requirement, a link to the issue, a link to the pull request(s) that implement the requirement, who implemented the requirement, who approved it, and a print screen that depicts the implemented feature (if applicable). I expect that you implement the features you specified in your MVP (c.f. D.2 Requirements).

Order the requirements below by the name of the student who implemented them. All the members of the group should have worked on implementation activities and submitted pull requests. Only stable code should be included in the release. The code that is still under development should be in branches.

## Tests (Michael)

You should implement automated tests that aim to verify the correct behavior of your code. Provide the following information:

- Test framework you used to develop your tests (e.g., JUnit, unittest, pytest, etc.):
- Link to your GitHub folder where your automated unit tests are located.
- An example of a test case. Include in your answer a GitHub link to the class being tested and to the test.
- A print screen showing the result of the execution of the automated tests.

## Adopted technologies (Levi, Taylor, Michael)

List the adopted technologies with a brief description and justification for choosing them.

Front End Technologies: Tkinter - We adopted this technology because we needed a GUI that our users could use to help them input what they need to in the correct box.

Client Server Technologies: PyCharm - We used PyCharm to run the front end and client because VSC required additional work arounds be implemented for pynput which was utilized on the Front End. PuTTY - PuTTY was vital for running our C++ Server in a remote environment. HostWinds - HostWinds is the host for our remote server where we run our C++ Server. FileZilla - FileZilla is our file transfer service that allows us to upload programs to our remote server.

## Learning/training (Levi, Taylor, Michael)

Describe the strategies employed by the team to learn the adopted technologies.

In the front end portion we learned our adopted technology, tkinter, pretty quickly since there are a lot of comprehensive tutorials
on youtube as well as a lot of helpful posts on stackoverflow.
For the Client Server relationship we needed to research classes, and how to connect a python client to a c++ Server.
The python client was made into a class for easy connection to the front end code. This allows the gui to call the client directly.

Gus and Taylor Worked on the Client Server portion of the project for the minimum viable product. Gus is knowledgeable in
object oriented programing and helped get Taylor up to speed when it came to writing classes and implementing object-oriented
practices on the client. Both students are taking CS460 Computer Networking, thus their experience in class helped them
to write Client Server programs with a TCP connection. Google was essential in teaching the students how to continuously
allow the server to run and accept connections.

## Deployment (Gus)

Provide a link for the system in production and describe how you are deploying your system.

The deployment we researched was Docker. Upon implementing we found that part of Docker that allows for sharing, Docker Playground
was down. We submitted an issue to the creators git repo and saw we weren't the only ones having this issue.
If this issue persists we won't be able to utilize Docker and will have to find another method of distribution.

## Licensing (Eddie)

Inform the license you adopted for your source code (remember to configure GitHub accordingly). Explain why you adopted this license.

MIT License

- [MIT license overview](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

- [Project license](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

We opted for the MIT license to allow maximum freedom for others to use and distribute our project, even in closed source versions. Our aim is to make the project as inclusive as possible for anyone interested in contributing.

## Readme File (Eddie)

You should also prepare your repository for receiving new contributors. You should prepare a Readme.md file. Tag the GitHub repository accordingly.

Your repository should contain a CONTRIBUTING.md file, a LICENSE file, and a CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md file. Search online for some examples of these files. In this section of the deliverable, put links to these files on GitHub.

- [README.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/README.md)

- [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD)

- [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

- [LICENSE](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

## Look & feel (Eddie, Levi)

Describe the approach you adopted to design your user interface. Include some screenshots.

The first thing we did was talk about what the logo was going to look like since we chose to work on the aesthetics first. The logo we chose ended up having a white font color so with that in mind we chose black as a background color for the screen

![logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90239263/227803445-bf05812f-e666-408a-a5a0-11b12f1628ac.png)

After we figured out the color scheme we decided on a central layout for the inputs and buttons, everything is put over one another in the center column of the interface.

(Screenshot of layout of our interface)

In the end we decided to go with two buttons for our interface. One button would take the data recorded from the keyboard and put it in a list with the times they were pushed and put it in a variable while the other button clears the text box for another phrase to be typed and recorded

(Screenshot of textbox and both buttons)

## Lessons learned (Everyone)

In retrospective, describe what your team learned during this first release and what you are planning to change for the second release.

## Demo

Include a link to a video showing the system working.

Commit message:

Updated Deliverable4.md with Introduction

Deliverables/Submitted/Deliverable4.md, after:

# D.4 Implementation 1

Group 04 – “TypeLock”\
Date: March 26, 2023\
Location: Flagstaff, Arizona\
Group Members: Taylor Nielsen, Eduardo De La Rosa, Alexander Siegel, Brock Heinz, Levi Watlington, Michael Vertin

## Introduction (Eddie)

TypeLock is a secure authentication system that identifies users by analyzing their typing behavior. The main value proposition of the TypeLock system is to provide a secure and convenient login method for users who are tired of managing multiple passwords. The software is designed to be user-friendly and easy to integrate into existing systems. The main features of the TypeLock system include identifying users based on how they type, ensuring account security, and providing an easy login process. The system also supports different devices, making it accessible to users on various platforms. Overall, the TypeLock system offers a secure and efficient alternative to traditional password-based login methods.

Project repository: [https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword)

## Implemented requirements (Gus, Eddie, Brock)

List in this section, the requirements and associated pull request that you implemented for this release, following the example below---include the description of the requirement, a link to the issue, a link to the pull request(s) that implement the requirement, who implemented the requirement, who approved it, and a print screen that depicts the implemented feature (if applicable). I expect that you implement the features you specified in your MVP (c.f. D.2 Requirements).

Order the requirements below by the name of the student who implemented them. All the members of the group should have worked on implementation activities and submitted pull requests. Only stable code should be included in the release. The code that is still under development should be in branches.

## Tests (Michael)

You should implement automated tests that aim to verify the correct behavior of your code. Provide the following information:

- Test framework you used to develop your tests (e.g., JUnit, unittest, pytest, etc.):
- Link to your GitHub folder where your automated unit tests are located.
- An example of a test case. Include in your answer a GitHub link to the class being tested and to the test.
- A print screen showing the result of the execution of the automated tests.

## Adopted technologies (Levi, Taylor, Michael)

List the adopted technologies with a brief description and justification for choosing them.

Front End Technologies: Tkinter - We adopted this technology because we needed a GUI that our users could use to help them input what they need to in the correct box.

Client Server Technologies: PyCharm - We used PyCharm to run the front end and client because VSC required additional work arounds be implemented for pynput which was utilized on the Front End. PuTTY - PuTTY was vital for running our C++ Server in a remote environment. HostWinds - HostWinds is the host for our remote server where we run our C++ Server. FileZilla - FileZilla is our file transfer service that allows us to upload programs to our remote server.

## Learning/training (Levi, Taylor, Michael)

Describe the strategies employed by the team to learn the adopted technologies.

In the front end portion we learned our adopted technology, tkinter, pretty quickly since there are a lot of comprehensive tutorials
on youtube as well as a lot of helpful posts on stackoverflow.
For the Client Server relationship we needed to research classes, and how to connect a python client to a c++ Server.
The python client was made into a class for easy connection to the front end code. This allows the gui to call the client directly.

Gus and Taylor Worked on the Client Server portion of the project for the minimum viable product. Gus is knowledgeable in
object oriented programing and helped get Taylor up to speed when it came to writing classes and implementing object-oriented
practices on the client. Both students are taking CS460 Computer Networking, thus their experience in class helped them
to write Client Server programs with a TCP connection. Google was essential in teaching the students how to continuously
allow the server to run and accept connections.

## Deployment (Gus)

Provide a link for the system in production and describe how you are deploying your system.

The deployment we researched was Docker. Upon implementing we found that part of Docker that allows for sharing, Docker Playground
was down. We submitted an issue to the creators git repo and saw we weren't the only ones having this issue.
If this issue persists we won't be able to utilize Docker and will have to find another method of distribution.

## Licensing (Eddie)

Inform the license you adopted for your source code (remember to configure GitHub accordingly). Explain why you adopted this license.

MIT License

- [MIT license overview](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

- [Project license](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

We opted for the MIT license to allow maximum freedom for others to use and distribute our project, even in closed source versions. Our aim is to make the project as inclusive as possible for anyone interested in contributing.

## Readme File (Eddie)

You should also prepare your repository for receiving new contributors. You should prepare a Readme.md file. Tag the GitHub repository accordingly.

Your repository should contain a CONTRIBUTING.md file, a LICENSE file, and a CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md file. Search online for some examples of these files. In this section of the deliverable, put links to these files on GitHub.

- [README.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/README.md)

- [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD)

- [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

- [LICENSE](https://github.com/Gus-Siegel/ProjectPassword/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

## Look & feel (Eddie, Levi)

Describe the approach you adopted to design your user interface. Include some screenshots.

The first thing we did was talk about what the logo was going to look like since we chose to work on the aesthetics first. The logo we chose ended up having a white font color so with that in mind we chose black as a background color for the screen

![logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90239263/227803445-bf05812f-e666-408a-a5a0-11b12f1628ac.png)

After we figured out the color scheme we decided on a central layout for the inputs and buttons, everything is put over one another in the center column of the interface.

(Screenshot of layout of our interface)

In the end we decided to go with two buttons for our interface. One button would take the data recorded from the keyboard and put it in a list with the times they were pushed and put it in a variable while the other button clears the text box for another phrase to be typed and recorded

(Screenshot of textbox and both buttons)

## Lessons learned (Everyone)

In retrospective, describe what your team learned during this first release and what you are planning to change for the second release.

## Demo

Include a link to a video showing the system working.
